# Transmitter-Receiver
Course: Communication Theory (ECE-300)

  Analyzing Transmitter-Receiver Pairs with ISI via MATLAB Simulation

	
	The goal of this project was to design a transmitter-receiver pair that transmitted more data than two other transmitter-receiver pairs under the constraints of limited feedback, only 16 possible channels to transmit over, and another signal present during transmission. First, we decided on a way to evade our opponent’s attempts at jamming our communication by relying on a random decision on choosing the channel every time we send a packet of information, through the use of feedback. This method was decided upon based on the idea that our channel decision would be uncorrelated to any previous decision and not be reliant on something deterministic. Therefore, it is tougher for an opponent to guess which channel we are transmitting on, since we don’t even know that information. Next, with the help of Eric Nguyen, we implemented an equation that computes the SNR of the channel for every run of the program very reasonably. It relies on the variance of the summation of the two signals being transmitted at the same time, as they interact with additive white Gaussian noise. This computation of the SNR is computed at the receiver after the first packet of information is sent from the transmitter and is then sent back, using feedback, to the transmitter. Now the transmitter will have knowledge of the SNR which allows us to select the optimal M-ary QAM scheme. Knowing the SNR at the transmitter, we increased our values of QAM as SNR was increased. For S = 0 dB we saw that 4-QAM worked the best against Tx1-Rx1 and Tx2-Rx2. For the range of SNR = 1 dB to 3 dB we applied 8-QAM to push as many bits possible to the output. For SNR = 4 dB to SNR = 8 dB we applied 16-QAM. Then for SNR = 9 dB to SNR = 13 dB we applied a modulation scheme of 32-QAM. Finally, for greater than 14 dB we applied 64-QAM as we saw through trial an error it continuously performed very well in correspondence with our block encoding scheme. Our block encoding scheme worked in relation to our modulation schemes by trying different values of “n” and “k” for the encoding function bchenc() in MATLAB. This involved finding an efficient ratio of actual information being sent per packet that allowed us to push as many bits to the receiver as possible. We found the value of n = 1023 with values of k ranging from 708 – 1003 produced the best results when transmitting against Tx1-Rx1 and Tx2-Rx2.  In our results, we consistently sent more total bits then both Tx1-Rx1 and Tx2-Rx2 for SNR from 0 dB – 20 dB.

